Abase
The captured knight refused to abase himself before the conquering king.

Abate
We waited indoors for the howling winds to finally abate.

Abdicate
Rather than face a violent coup, the aging monarch chose to abdicate.

Abduct
The sci-fi movie featured aliens trying to abduct an unsuspecting farmer.

Aberration
Finding a poisonous snake in a suburban garage is a terrifying aberration.

Abet
She was charged with conspiracy for attempting to abet a known fugitive.

Abhor
Pacifists inherently abhor any form of physical violence.

Abide
Everyone in the building must abide by the new fire regulations.

Abject
The abandoned puppy was found shivering in abject misery.

Abjure
To gain citizenship, you must abjure allegiance to your former nation.

Abnegation
His strict diet required a complete abnegation of sugar and dairy.

Abort
The captain ordered the crew to abort the launch sequence immediately.

Abridge
The publisher decided to abridge the massive novel for younger readers.

Abrogate
The new administration sought to abrogate the controversial trade agreement.

Abscond
The dishonest treasurer planned to abscond with the charity's funds.

Absolution
He knelt in the confessional seeking absolution for his recent sins.

Abstain
I will abstain from voting on this issue due to a conflict of interest.

Abstruse
The physicist's lecture on quantum mechanics was far too abstruse for beginners.

Accede
Management finally decided to accede to the union's demands for better pay.

Accentuate
She wore a silver belt to accentuate her waist.

Accessible
The new ramp makes the library accessible to wheelchair users.

Acclaim
The young author received widespread acclaim for her debut novel.

Accolade
Winning the Nobel Prize is the highest accolade a scientist can achieve.

Accommodating
The hotel staff was incredibly accommodating when we arrived late.

Accord
The warring nations finally signed a historic peace accord.

Accost
A stranger tried to accost me in the dark parking lot.

Accretion
The island was formed by the slow accretion of coral sand.

Acerbic
His acerbic sense of humor often offended sensitive listeners.

Acquiesce
I will not acquiesce to such an unreasonable schedule.

Acrimony
The bitter divorce was filled with endless acrimony and shouting.

Acumen
Her sharp business acumen helped turn the failing startup around.

Acute
The patient complained of an acute pain in his lower back.

Adamant
She remained adamant that she was telling the truth.

Adept
The ninja was highly adept at moving silently through the shadows.

Adhere
Glue is required to make the wooden panels adhere properly.

Admonish
The teacher had to admonish the students for cheating on the test.

Adorn
We plan to adorn the banquet hall with hundreds of white roses.

Adroit
An adroit mechanic fixed the engine problem in under ten minutes.

Adulation
The pop star basked in the adulation of her screaming fans.

Adumbrate
The CEO could only adumbrate the company's vague future plans.

Adverse
The marathon was canceled due to extremely adverse weather conditions.

Advocate
She works as an advocate for children with learning disabilities.

Aerial
The drone captured breathtaking aerial footage of the coastline.

Aesthetic
The sleek laptop appeals to my minimalist design aesthetic.

Affable
Our new neighbor is a very affable and welcoming guy.

Affinity
Cats have a natural affinity for sleeping in small cardboard boxes.

Affluent
The affluent neighborhood is known for its sprawling mansions.

Affront
He took the joke as a personal affront to his dignity.

Aggrandize
The dictator built massive statues to aggrandize his own legacy.

Aggregate
The final score was an aggregate of all three judges' ratings.

Aggrieved
The aggrieved customers demanded a full refund for the broken items.

Agile
The agile gymnast executed a flawless backflip off the beam.

Agnostic
My brother is agnostic and doubts we can ever know if God exists.

Agriculture
Early human civilization relied heavily on the invention of agriculture.

Aisle
The nervous bride walked slowly down the church aisle.

Alacrity
She accepted the exciting job offer with impressive alacrity.

Alias
The spy traveled under an alias to avoid government detection.

Allay
A warm glass of milk helped allay the child's bedtime fears.

Allege
The prosecutors allege that he was at the crime scene.

Alleviate
Taking ibuprofen can help alleviate the swelling in your ankle.

Allocate
We must allocate more funding to the struggling public schools.

Aloof
The famous actor seemed aloof and ignored his fans at the premiere.

Altercation
A minor disagreement escalated into a physical altercation at the bar.

Amalgamate
The two tech startups decided to amalgamate into one large corporation.

Ambiguous
The detective was frustrated by the suspect's ambiguous answers.

Ambivalent
I feel ambivalent about moving to a new city far from home.

Ameliorate
Volunteers are working to ameliorate the harsh conditions in the shelter.

Amenable
My boss is surprisingly amenable to the idea of working remotely.

Amenity
A heated swimming pool is a lovely amenity at this resort.

Amiable
The amiable tour guide made our trip incredibly enjoyable.

Amicable
Despite the breakup, they managed to reach an amicable agreement.

Amorous
He wrote an amorous poem to his girlfriend for Valentine's Day.

Amorphous
The blob in the sci-fi movie was an amorphous mass of slime.

Anachronistic
Using a typewriter in a modern office seems wonderfully anachronistic.

Analgesic
Aspirin is a common analgesic used to treat minor headaches.

Analogous
The human brain is often considered analogous to a complex computer.

Anarchist
The radical anarchist protested against all forms of government control.

Anathema
Eating meat is absolute anathema to a strict vegan.

Anecdote
My grandfather loves sharing a funny anecdote from his childhood.

Anesthesia
The surgeon waited for the anesthesia to completely numb the patient.

Anguish
She cried out in anguish when she heard the tragic news.

Animated
The kids became highly animated when discussing their favorite video game.

Annex
The city plans to annex the neighboring farmland for a new subdivision.

Annul
The couple quickly hired a lawyer to annul their drunken marriage.

Anomaly
A sudden spike in the heart rate monitor was a concerning anomaly.

Anonymous
The whistleblower submitted the leaked documents through an anonymous source.

Antagonism
There is a long history of antagonism between the rival soccer teams.

Antecedent
The telegraph is a historical antecedent to the modern telephone.

Antediluvian
His antediluvian views on gender roles belong in the nineteenth century.

Anthology
The professor assigned an anthology of classic British poetry.

Antipathy
Cats and dogs are often portrayed as having a natural antipathy.

Antiquated
We finally replaced the antiquated fax machine with a digital scanner.

Antiseptic
Wipe the cut with an antiseptic pad to prevent dangerous infections.

Antithesis
Slavery is the exact antithesis of freedom and human rights.

Anxiety
Deep breathing exercises can help reduce your daily anxiety.

Apathetic
The apathetic voters didn't bother showing up for the local election.

Apocryphal
The legend of the ghostly hitchhiker is likely an apocryphal tale.

Appalling
The inspector shut down the restaurant due to appalling health violations.

Appease
We offered the angry customer a free dessert to appease him.

Appraise
An expert was called in to appraise the rare diamond ring.

Apprehend
Police managed to apprehend the bank robber within twenty minutes.

Approbation
The courageous firefighter earned the approbation of the entire city.

Appropriate
The state decided to appropriate the land for a new highway.

Aquatic
Dolphins and whales are highly intelligent aquatic mammals.

Arable
The fertile valley provides plenty of arable land for growing crops.

Arbiter
A neutral arbiter was hired to settle the bitter labor dispute.

Arbitrary
Flipping a coin is an arbitrary way to make a big decision.

Arbitration
The contract dispute was settled quickly through binding arbitration.

Arboreal
Monkeys are arboreal creatures that spend their lives in the canopy.

Arcane
The wizard studied an arcane tome filled with forgotten spells.

Archaic
"Thou" and "thine" are archaic pronouns rarely used today.

Archetypal
Superman is the archetypal superhero that inspired countless others.

Ardor
He kissed her with a sudden, overwhelming ardor.

Arid
Cacti thrive perfectly in a hot, arid desert environment.

Arrogate
The vice president tried to arrogate the CEO's authority during her absence.

Artifact
This clay pot is a fascinating artifact from the Bronze Age.

Artisan
The local market features handmade goods from a skilled leather artisan.

Ascertain
We need to ascertain the exact cause of the engine failure.

Ascetic
The hermit lived an ascetic lifestyle isolated in a mountain cave.

Ascribe
Historians ascribe the fall of Rome to a multitude of factors.

Aspersion
Do not cast an aspersion on her character without solid proof.

Aspire
Many young athletes aspire to compete in the Olympic Games.

Assail
Critics were quick to assail the director's controversial new film.

Assess
The insurance adjuster will arrive tomorrow to assess the roof damage.

Assiduous
Her assiduous study habits guaranteed her a perfect score on the exam.

Assuage
A warm cup of tea helped assuage my terrible sore throat.

Astute
An astute investor knows exactly when to sell a falling stock.

Asylum
The political dissident was granted asylum in a neighboring democratic country.

Atone
He tried to atone for his mistakes by doing extensive charity work.

Atrophy
Without regular exercise, your muscles will slowly begin to atrophy.

Attain
You must study diligently to attain a medical degree.

Attribute
She attributes her musical success to her supportive parents.

Atypical
It is highly atypical for our usually punctual boss to be late.

Audacious
The audacious thief stole the painting in broad daylight.

Audible
The dog whistle produces a sound that is not audible to humans.

Augment
He took a weekend job to augment his meager salary.

Auspicious
Finding a four-leaf clover is considered an auspicious start to the day.

Austere
The prison cell was stark and austere, containing only a metal cot.

Avarice
Corporate avarice often leads to environmental destruction for profit.

Avenge
The hero swore to avenge the unjust murder of his brother.

Aversion
I have a strong aversion to eating raw seafood.

Balk
The horse decided to balk at the jump and threw its rider.

Ballad
The musician strummed his guitar and sang a mournful ballad.

Banal
The sitcom's plot was so banal that I fell asleep halfway through.

Bane
Mosquitoes are the absolute bane of my summer camping trips.

Bard
William Shakespeare is famously known as the Bard of Avon.

Bashful
The bashful toddler hid his face behind his mother's skirt.

Beguile
The con artist used his charm to beguile tourists out of their money.

Behemoth
The new corporate headquarters is a towering glass behemoth.

Benevolent
A benevolent donor secretly paid for the sick child's surgery.

Benign
The doctor smiled and announced that the tumor was benign.

Bequeath
My grandmother plans to bequeath her antique necklace to me.

Berate
The angry coach began to berate the players for their sloppy defense.

Bereft
The grieving widow felt completely bereft after the funeral.

Beseech
I beseech you to reconsider this dangerous and foolish plan.

Bias
The referee was accused of having a clear bias toward the home team.

Bilk
The scammer managed to bilk elderly residents out of their savings.

Blandish
He tried to blandish the bouncer into letting them skip the line.

Blemish
A single scratch was the only blemish on the classic car's paint.

Blight
Urban blight has left this once-thriving neighborhood in ruins.

Boisterous
The boisterous crowd cheered wildly when the band took the stage.

Bombastic
His bombastic speech lacked any real substance or practical solutions.

Boon
The sudden rainstorm was a huge boon to the struggling farmers.

Bourgeois
He rejected his family's bourgeois lifestyle to live as a starving artist.

Brazen
The brazen student cheated while sitting right in front of the teacher.

Brusque
The busy doctor gave a brusque reply to my simple question.

Buffet
Violent winds continued to buffet the small plane during the storm.

Burnish
Use this special polish to burnish the silver teapot until it shines.

Buttress
The engineers built a steel wall to buttress the crumbling foundation.

Cacophony
A loud cacophony of car horns erupted during the traffic jam.

Cadence
The rowers synchronized their oars to the steady cadence of the drum.

Cajole
She managed to cajole her reluctant friend into riding the rollercoaster.

Calamity
The devastating earthquake was the worst calamity the nation had ever faced.

Calibrate
You must calibrate the scale before weighing the chemical samples.

Callous
The callous thief laughed at the crying child he had just robbed.

Calumny
The politician sued the newspaper for printing malicious calumny about him.

Camaraderie
Military training builds a strong sense of camaraderie among the recruits.

Candor
I appreciate your candor in telling me that this outfit looks terrible.

Canny
A canny shopper always looks for the best discount codes before buying.

Canvas
The painter stared at the blank canvas, waiting for inspiration to strike.

Capacious
Her capacious handbag held everything from an umbrella to a laptop.

Capitulate
The surrounded army had no choice but to capitulate to the enemy.

Capricious
The capricious weather shifted from sunny to hailing in minutes.

Captivate
The magician's incredible illusions managed to captivate the entire audience.

Carouse
The sailors hit the local taverns to carouse until dawn.

Carp
My grandfather loves to carp about how bad modern music sounds.

Catalog
The librarian worked tirelessly to catalog the massive new book donation.

Catalyze
The protests helped catalyze a major shift in public policy.

Caucus
Party leaders held a private caucus to select their presidential nominee.

Caustic
Bleach is a highly caustic chemical that requires careful handling.

Cavort
The joyful puppies began to cavort happily in the fresh snow.

Censure
The ethics committee issued a formal censure against the corrupt senator.

Cerebral
The cerebral indie film explored deep philosophical questions about existence.

Chaos
The sudden fire alarm plunged the crowded theater into total chaos.

Chastise
My boss will certainly chastise me if I submit this report late again.

Cherish
I will always cherish the memories of our family trips to the lake.

Chide
She gently chided her husband for forgetting to buy milk.

Choreography
The complex choreography required the dancers to practice for months.

Chronicle
This massive book is a detailed chronicle of the Roman Empire.

Chronological
Please arrange these historical documents in strict chronological order.

Circuitous
The cab driver took a circuitous route to drive up the meter.

Circumlocution
His annoying circumlocution made it impossible to get a straight answer.

Circumscribed
The guard dogs were kept within a carefully circumscribed area of the yard.

Circumspect
A circumspect investor always reads the fine print before signing a contract.

Circumvent
Hackers found a clever way to circumvent the company's new firewall.

Clairvoyant
The fortune teller claimed to be clairvoyant and predicted a dark future.

Clamor
A loud clamor arose from the angry protesters outside the courthouse.

Clandestine
The spies held a clandestine meeting in the back of a dark pub.

Cleave
The butcher used a heavy meat axe to cleave the bone in half.

Clemency
The condemned man begged the governor for clemency at the last minute.

Clergy
Local clergy organized a massive food drive for the homeless shelter.

Cloying
The romantic comedy was ruined by a cloying and overly sweet ending.

Coagulate
Exposure to the air caused the fresh blood to rapidly coagulate.

Coalesce
The different neighborhood watch groups decided to coalesce into one organization.

Cobbler
I took my favorite leather boots to the cobbler for new soles.

Coerce
You cannot coerce a witness into providing a false testimony.

Cogent
The attorney presented a very cogent argument that swayed the jury.

Cognizant
We must be fully cognizant of the risks before proceeding with the surgery.

Coherent
The drunk driver was completely unable to form a coherent sentence.

Collateral
She put up her car as collateral to secure the bank loan.

Colloquial
The essay was marked down for using too much informal colloquial slang.

Collusion
Three major airlines were investigated for illegal price-fixing collusion.

Colossus
The ancient Colossus of Rhodes was a massive bronze statue honoring the sun god.

Combustion
The internal combustion engine revolutionized the transportation industry.

Commendation
The brave police dog received a special commendation for finding the suspect.

Commensurate
Your starting salary will be commensurate with your level of experience.

Commodious
The commodious living room had plenty of space for a massive sectional couch.

Compelling
The documentary offered a compelling look at the harsh realities of climate change.

Compensate
The airline agreed to compensate the passengers for the delayed flight.

Complacency
Our early success led to a dangerous complacency that ruined the project.

Complement
That dark green tie perfectly complements the color of your eyes.

Compliant
The restaurant kitchen is fully compliant with all state health codes.

Complicit
By hiding the stolen money, she became complicit in the bank robbery.

Compliment
It is always nice to receive a genuine compliment on your hard work.

Compound
Adding salt to the wound will only compound his intense pain.

Comprehensive
The doctor requested a comprehensive blood test to check everything.

Compress
You can use software to compress the video file so it sends faster.

Compunction
He felt no compunction about stealing candy from a small child.

Concede
The losing candidate called her rival to concede the tight election.

Conciliatory
He sent a bouquet of flowers as a conciliatory gesture after their fight.

Concise
Please keep your presentation concise and skip the unnecessary details.

Concoct
The chef managed to concoct a brilliant sauce out of leftover ingredients.

Concomitant
Loss of memory is a natural concomitant of advanced old age.

Concord
The two neighboring towns existed in a state of peaceful concord for decades.

Condolence
I sent a heartfelt card to express my condolence for her loss.

Condone
The school principal refuses to condone bullying of any kind.

Conduit
A large copper pipe acts as the main conduit for the building's water supply.

Confection
The bakery displayed a beautiful chocolate confection in the front window.

Confidant
My sister has always been my closest confidant and trusted advisor.

Conflagration
The dropped cigarette started a massive conflagration that destroyed the forest.

Confluence
The city was founded right at the confluence of the Ohio and Mississippi rivers.

Conformist
The strict corporate culture rewarded conformist behavior over creative thinking.

Confound
The complicated math problem continued to confound the frustrated student.

Congeal
The bacon grease began to congeal into a white paste in the pan.

Congenial
The congenial host made sure every single party guest had a drink.

Congregation
The pastor looked out over the large congregation gathered for Sunday mass.

Congruity
There is a noticeable lack of congruity between his words and his actions.

Connive
The greedy siblings began to connive a way to steal their father's inheritance.

Consecrate
The bishop arrived to officially consecrate the newly built church altar.

Consensus
The jury finally reached a unanimous consensus after three days of deliberation.

Consign
I decided to consign my old designer clothes to a local thrift boutique.

Consolation
The bronze medal was little consolation to the athlete who expected gold.

Consonant
His charitable actions are entirely consonant with his deep religious beliefs.

Constituent
Caffeine is the primary active constituent found in a cup of coffee.

Constrain
Tight budget rules will severely constrain our ability to hire new staff.

Construe
Please do not construe my silence as an agreement with your ridiculous plan.

Consummate
He played the violin with the consummate skill of a seasoned professional.

Consumption
The doctor warned him that excessive alcohol consumption would ruin his liver.

Contemporaneous
The two distinct ancient civilizations were actually contemporaneous with each other.

Contentious
Gun control remains a highly contentious issue in modern political debates.

Contravene
By parking in front of the fire hydrant, you contravene city traffic laws.

Contrite
The contrite child apologized sincerely for breaking the neighbor's window.

Contusion
He suffered a nasty purple contusion on his leg after the bicycle crash.

Conundrum
Figuring out how to pay rent without a job is a stressful conundrum.

Convene
The board of directors will convene next Tuesday to discuss the merger.

Convention
Shaking hands is a standard social convention when meeting someone new.

Convivial
The Irish pub has a warm, convivial atmosphere that draws huge crowds.

Convoluted
The movie's convoluted plot left the entire audience confused by the ending.

Copious
She took copious notes during the lecture to prepare for the final exam.

Cordial
The ex-spouses managed to maintain a polite and cordial relationship for their kids.

Coronation
Thousands lined the streets to celebrate the new king's lavish coronation.

Corpulence
His increasing corpulence made it difficult for him to walk up the stairs.

Corroborate
Security camera footage helped to corroborate the witness's timeline of events.

Corrosive
Battery acid is highly corrosive and will burn right through your clothes.

Cosmopolitan
New York is a truly cosmopolitan city featuring cultures from around the world.

Counteract
Drinking plenty of water can help counteract the dehydrating effects of coffee.

Coup
The military generals staged a sudden coup and overthrew the democratic government.

Covert
The CIA launched a covert operation to rescue the hostages at midnight.

Covet
Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's luxury sports car.

Credulity
Scammers prey on the credulity of people who don't understand the internet.

Crescendo
The symphony built to a magnificent, deafening crescendo in the final movement.

Criteria
You must meet all the physical criteria to be accepted into the military.

Culmination
The successful rocket launch was the culmination of ten years of hard work.

Culpable
The investigation determined that the driver was culpable for the tragic accident.

Cultivate
The farmer worked hard to cultivate the rocky soil into a fertile garden.

Cumulative
The cumulative effect of smoking for forty years severely damaged his lungs.

Cunning
The cunning fox sneaked right past the sleeping guard dogs into the henhouse.

Cupidity
The villain's blinding cupidity drove him to steal from his own family.

Cursory
The busy editor only gave the manuscript a quick, cursory glance.

Curt
Her curt response made it obvious that she was annoyed with my questions.

Curtail
We have to curtail our spending if we ever want to buy a house.

Daunting
Climbing Mount Everest is a daunting task even for experienced mountaineers.

Dearth
There is a severe dearth of fresh produce at this tiny corner store.

Debacle
The badly planned music festival turned into an absolute logistical debacle.

Debase
Printing too much paper money will inevitably debase the national currency.

Debauch
The lottery winner allowed endless parties to completely debauch his life.

Debunk
The science show aims to debunk common urban legends using physics.

Decorous
The students maintained a quiet, decorous demeanor during the solemn assembly.

Decry
Activists gathered in the square to decry the harsh new immigration laws.

Deface
Vandals used red spray paint to deface the historic marble monument.

Defamatory
The actor sued the tabloid for publishing a defamatory article about his marriage.

Defer
I will defer to my lawyer's expertise regarding this complicated contract.

Deferential
The young apprentice was deeply deferential to the master craftsman.

Defile
Industrial runoff continues to defile the waters of the local river.

Deft
The deft surgeon successfully repaired the tiny blood vessel with absolute precision.

Defunct
The explorers found a rusted train engine belonging to a defunct railway company.

Delegate
A good manager knows how to delegate tedious tasks to her capable assistants.

Deleterious
Smoking has incredibly deleterious effects on your respiratory system.

Deliberate
The arsonist made a deliberate choice to set the abandoned warehouse on fire.

Delineate
The property map clearly delineates the border between our two yards.

Demagogue
The populist demagogue manipulated the crowd's anger to win the election.

Demarcation
The river serves as a natural line of demarcation between the two counties.

Demean
The arrogant boss loves to demean his employees in front of major clients.

Demure
The demure young woman sat quietly with her hands folded in her lap.

Denigrate
You shouldn't denigrate her artistic efforts just because you don't like abstract art.

Denounce
The president went on television to denounce the violent terrorist attacks.

Deplore
We absolutely deplore the use of violence to solve political disputes.

Depravity
The serial killer's diary revealed a shocking level of psychological depravity.

Deprecate
He tends to self-deprecate whenever someone compliments his incredible cooking.

Derelict
The city tore down the derelict apartment building because it was unsafe.

Deride
The bullies used to deride him for wearing thick glasses in middle school.

Derivative
The new fantasy novel feels highly derivative of The Lord of the Rings.

Desecrate
Grave robbers broke into the tomb to desecrate the ancient pharaoh's sarcophagus.

Desiccated
The desert sun left the abandoned fruit completely desiccated and hard as rock.

Desolate
The desolate landscape of the moon is completely devoid of life or color.

Despondent
He became severely despondent after failing the bar exam for the third time.

Despot
The cruel despot ruled his small country with an iron fist and secret police.

Destitute
The massive hurricane left thousands of families completely homeless and destitute.

Deter
The heavy security presence is meant to deter shoplifters from stealing merchandise.

Devious
The devious villain concocted a brilliant scheme to rob the heavily guarded bank.

Dialect
The remote islanders speak a unique dialect that mainlanders cannot understand.

Diaphanous
The dancer wore a diaphanous silk skirt that floated beautifully as she spun.

Didactic
The children's fable is heavily didactic, aiming to teach a moral lesson about greed.

Diffident
The diffident student was too shy to raise her hand in the large lecture hall.

Diffuse
Use this glass lampshade to diffuse the harsh glare of the bare lightbulb.

Dilatory
The contractor used dilatory tactics to delay finishing the bathroom remodel.

Diligent
A diligent researcher always double-checks her sources before publishing a paper.

Diminutive
The diminutive Chihuahua bravely barked at the giant Great Dane.

Dirge
A lone bagpiper played a mournful dirge as the casket was lowered.

Disaffected
Disaffected voters are unlikely to participate in the upcoming mayoral election.

Disavow
The politician rushed to disavow any connection to the massive bribery scandal.

Discern
It is hard to discern the subtle differences between these two shades of blue.

Disclose
The company is legally required to disclose all potential side effects of the drug.

Discomfit
The reporter's aggressive personal questions managed to discomfit the evasive mayor.

Discordant
The beginner orchestra produced a horrible, discordant screeching noise.

Discrepancy
The auditor found a massive discrepancy between the bank statements and the ledger.

Discretion
A therapist must maintain absolute discretion regarding her patients' private lives.

Discursive
The professor's discursive lecture rambled through five different unrelated topics.

Disdain
The wealthy aristocrat looked with absolute disdain at the filthy beggar.

Disgruntled
A group of disgruntled employees organized a strike to protest the pay cuts.

Disheartened
She felt disheartened after receiving yet another rejection letter from a publisher.

Disparage
It is unprofessional to disparage your former employer during a job interview.

Disparate
The support group brought together people from completely disparate walks of life.

Dispatch
The general ordered the immediate dispatch of medical supplies to the front lines.

Dispel
The CEO held a meeting to dispel the rumors about an upcoming mass layoff.

Disperse
Police used tear gas to quickly disperse the angry mob blocking the street.

Disrepute
The once-famous restaurant fell into disrepute after several terrible health inspections.

Dissemble
The guilty suspect tried to dissemble his true motives with a fake smile.

Disseminate
The internet makes it incredibly easy to disseminate information across the globe.

Dissent
Two justices wrote a strong opinion to express their dissent from the court's ruling.

Dissipate
The heavy morning fog began to dissipate as the hot sun finally rose.

Dissonance
The sudden musical dissonance in the jazz piece startled the relaxed audience.

Dissuade
I tried to dissuade my brother from buying that incredibly expensive sports car.

Distend
Severe malnutrition caused the starving child's belly to painfully distend.

Dither
Stop trying to dither over the dinner menu and just pick a restaurant.

Divine
The ancient oracle claimed she could divine the future from the flight of birds.

Divisive
The proposal to raise property taxes proved to be a highly divisive issue.

Divulge
The journalist refused to divulge the identity of his secret government source.

Docile
The normally wild horse became incredibly docile after months of gentle training.

Dogmatic
The dogmatic leader refused to consider any opinions that contradicted his own.

Dormant
The volcano lay dormant for three hundred years before suddenly erupting again.

Dour
The dour librarian scowled at anyone who dared to whisper in the reading room.

Dubious
I remain highly dubious of his claim that he won the lottery twice.

Duplicity
The spy's shocking duplicity was revealed when they found his hidden radio transmitter.

Duress
He only signed the confession under extreme duress after hours of interrogation.

Dynamic
The dynamic speaker captivated the audience with her incredible energy and passion.

Ebullient
The ebullient crowd cheered wildly as the home team won the championship game.

Eclectic
Her eclectic taste in music ranges from classical opera to heavy metal.

Ecstatic
She was absolutely ecstatic when she found out she got into her dream college.

Edict
The absolute monarch issued a harsh edict banning all public gatherings.

Efface
Time and weather will eventually efface the carvings on the ancient stone monument.

Effervescent
Champagne is an effervescent beverage perfect for celebrating special occasions.

Efficacious
The new vaccine proved to be highly efficacious in preventing the spread of the virus.

Effrontery
He had the unbelievable effrontery to ask for a raise after being caught sleeping.

Effulgent
The effulgent morning sun peeked beautifully over the horizon, lighting up the valley.

Egregious
Spelling the CEO's name wrong on the presentation was an egregious error.

Elaborate
The thieves planned an incredibly elaborate heist involving lasers and grappling hooks.

Elated
The exhausted runner was elated to finally cross the marathon finish line.

Elegy
The poet recited a beautiful elegy at the funeral of his closest friend.

Elicit
The comedian's sharp jokes failed to elicit even a chuckle from the tough crowd.

Eloquent
The civil rights leader delivered an eloquent speech that moved everyone to tears.

Elucidate
The professor used a simple diagram to elucidate the complex physics theorem.

Elude
The cunning fox managed to elude the hunting dogs by running through a stream.

Emaciated
The rescued dog was horribly emaciated after surviving on the streets for weeks.

Embellish
My uncle loves to embellish his fishing stories to make the fish sound bigger.

Embezzle
The accountant used a complex scheme to embezzle millions from the corporate fund.

Emend
The editor had to carefully emend the sloppy manuscript before sending it to print.

Eminent
The university invited an eminent scientist to deliver the keynote graduation address.

Emollient
Apply this thick emollient lotion to soothe your terribly dry, cracked winter skin.

Emote
Stage actors must learn to emote grandly so the back row can feel their performance.

Empathy
A good nurse shows deep empathy for patients dealing with chronic pain.

Empirical
The scientist demanded empirical evidence rather than relying on philosophical theories.

Emulate
Young basketball players constantly try to emulate Michael Jordan's iconic fadeaway jumper.

Enamor
The charming coastal town managed to completely enamor the visiting tourists.

Encore
The cheering concert crowd demanded an encore after the band played their final song.

Encumber
Do not encumber yourself with heavy luggage if we are going to be walking all day.

Enervate
The blistering desert heat will quickly enervate even the most experienced hiker.

Enfranchise
The historical amendment was passed to enfranchise millions of women across the country.

Engender
The strict new dress code will only engender deep resentment among the student body.

Enigmatic
The enigmatic artist wore a mask and refused to ever speak to the press.

Enmity
There is a bitter, centuries-old enmity between the two rival warring clans.

Ennui
The incredibly wealthy heir suffered from a crushing ennui, bored by his luxurious life.

Entail
Adopting a puppy will entail a massive commitment of your time and energy.

Enthrall
The acrobat's daring high-wire act managed to enthrall the entire circus audience.

Ephemeral
The beauty of a blooming cherry blossom is sadly ephemeral, lasting only a few days.

Epistolary
The classic novel Dracula is written in an epistolary format using diary entries and letters.

Epitome
That luxurious penthouse suite is the absolute epitome of high-end modern living.

Equanimity
The pilot maintained complete equanimity even when the left engine caught on fire.

Equivocal
The politician gave an equivocal answer that completely dodged the reporter's question.

Erudite
The erudite professor has read almost every single book in the university library.

Eschew
A strict vegetarian chooses to entirely eschew all meat and animal products.

Esoteric
The professor's esoteric research focuses on the mating habits of a rare Amazonian beetle.

Espouse
The progressive candidate continues to espouse the importance of universal healthcare.

Ethereal
The glowing aurora borealis creates an ethereal, ghostly light in the northern sky.

Etymology
Studying the etymology of English words reveals fascinating connections to ancient Latin.

Euphoric
The winning team felt absolutely euphoric as they lifted the massive championship trophy.

Evanescent
The evanescent rainbow disappeared from the sky just minutes after the storm ended.

Evince
His constantly shaking hands evince a severe level of underlying nervous anxiety.

Exacerbate
Scratching that terrible mosquito bite will only exacerbate the itching and swelling.

Exalt
The cult members exalt their charismatic leader as if he were a living god.

Exasperate
The toddler's constant screaming began to seriously exasperate the exhausted babysitter.

Excavate
Archeologists plan to carefully excavate the ruins of the ancient Roman villa.

Exculpate
The newly discovered security footage will exculpate my client from all robbery charges.

Excursion
The school arranged a fun educational excursion to the natural history museum.

Execrable
The incredibly harsh critic called the new blockbuster film an execrable piece of trash.

Exhort
The coach loudly exhorted his tired players to give maximum effort in the fourth quarter.

Exigent
The rapidly spreading wildfire created an exigent situation requiring an immediate evacuation.

Exonerate
The DNA evidence was finally enough to completely exonerate the wrongfully convicted man.

Exorbitant
The luxury hotel charged an exorbitant fee for a simple bottle of sparkling water.

Expedient
He took the most expedient route, ignoring the speed limit to get to the hospital faster.

Expiate
He donated half his wealth to charity in an attempt to expiate his past corporate sins.

Expunge
The judge agreed to expunge the minor teenage offense from his permanent criminal record.

Expurgate
The conservative school board decided to expurgate the classic novel before assigning it.

Extant
This beautiful illuminated manuscript is one of the oldest extant copies of the Bible.

Extol
The nutritionist continues to extol the massive health benefits of eating dark leafy greens.

Extraneous
Please remove all extraneous details from your report to keep it under two pages.

Extricate
Firefighters used the jaws of life to extricate the trapped driver from the crushed car.

Exult
The massive crowd began to exult wildly when the home team scored the winning goal.

Fabricate
The dishonest employee tried to fabricate an elaborate excuse for missing the big meeting.

Facile
That highly complex geopolitical conflict requires more than a facile, one-sentence solution.

Fallacious
The advertisement relies on a fallacious claim that the pill will melt belly fat instantly.

Fastidious
The fastidious chef demands absolute perfection and total cleanliness in his busy kitchen.

Fathom
I cannot fathom why anyone would want to go skydiving without a backup parachute.

Fatuous
The arrogant politician made a fatuous comment that completely alienated his voters.

Fecund
The fecund river valley produces incredibly massive harvests of wheat every single year.

Felicitous
The speaker made a felicitous remark that perfectly captured the joyful mood of the wedding.

Feral
A pack of feral cats lives in the abandoned warehouse down by the old docks.

Fervent
The fervent supporters stood in the freezing rain just to catch a glimpse of the president.

Fetid
The stagnant swamp water emitted a fetid odor that made the brave explorers gag.

Fetter
The dungeon guards used heavy iron chains to fetter the prisoner to the damp stone wall.

Fickle
The fickle weather changed from bright sunshine to a freezing blizzard in under ten minutes.

Fidelity
The loyal dog demonstrated absolute fidelity by waiting by his master's grave for years.

Figurative
The poet used figurative language to compare the roaring ocean to an angry, hungry beast.

Flabbergasted
I was completely flabbergasted when I saw the outrageous total on my restaurant receipt.

Flaccid
The flaccid balloon slowly drifted to the floor after the loud birthday party finally ended.

Flagrant
Tripping the opposing player on purpose was a flagrant violation of the sportsmanship rules.

Florid
The Victorian mansion was decorated with florid, overly complicated gold wallpaper.

Flout
The rebellious teenager loved to flout the strict school dress code by wearing bright colors.

Foil
Batman always manages to foil the Joker's highly complex and dangerous criminal plots.

Forage
The lost hikers had to desperately forage for edible berries and nuts in the dense forest.

Forbearance
The patient teacher showed incredible forbearance when dealing with the highly disruptive student.

Forestall
The company sold off its valuable real estate to forestall an inevitable, crushing bankruptcy.

Forlorn
The abandoned puppy looked incredibly forlorn sitting alone in the cold, pouring rain.

Forsake
The devoted monk decided to forsake all his worldly possessions to live a life of prayer.

Fortitude
The brave soldier showed massive fortitude while enduring the terrifying horrors of active combat.

Fortuitous
The incredibly fortuitous discovery of the gold vein made the incredibly poor miner rich overnight.

Forum
The town hall meeting provided an excellent forum for citizens to voice their valid complaints.

Foster
The kind couple decided to officially foster the abandoned child in their loving home.

Fractious
The exhausted, fractious toddler threw a massive tantrum in the middle of the grocery store.

Fraught
The dangerous rescue mission was fraught with incredible peril and unexpected complications.

Frenetic
The busy restaurant kitchen operated at a frenetic pace during the crowded Friday dinner rush.

Frivolous
The wealthy heiress spent her fortune on entirely frivolous luxury items and expensive vacations.

Frugal
The frugal student saved a massive amount of money by eating incredibly simple, cheap meals.

Furtive
The suspicious spy cast a furtive glance around the room before dropping the secret package.

Garish
The neon green sweater was far too garish for a solemn funeral.

Garrulous
He avoided the garrulous barber who talked nonstop during haircuts.

Genial
The genial host greeted every arrival with a warm smile.

Gluttony
Consuming an entire wedding cake alone is pure gluttony.

Goad
His older sister loved to goad him into throwing temper tantrums.

Gourmand
A true gourmand, he traveled to Paris just to try a specific cheese.

Grandiloquence
The senator's grandiloquence hid the fact that his policies lacked substance.

Grandiose
She abandoned her grandiose plans to build a castle in the suburbs.

Gratuitous
The horror film relied on gratuitous violence rather than a scary plot.

Gregarious
My gregarious roommate throws a party almost every single weekend.

Grievous
The factory worker suffered a grievous injury from the malfunctioning press.

Guile
It takes a lot of guile to successfully bluff your way through a poker tournament.

Hackneyed
"Love conquers all" is a hackneyed phrase that belongs in cheap greeting cards.

Hallowed
We walked respectfully through the hallowed grounds of the national cemetery.

Hapless
The hapless golfer managed to hit his ball directly into a passing garbage truck.

Harangue
The coach delivered a blistering harangue after the team lost by forty points.

Hardy
These hardy succulents can survive for months without a single drop of water.

Harrowing
Surviving the avalanche was a harrowing experience he would never forget.

Haughty
The haughty waiter sneered when we asked for ketchup at the fancy restaurant.

Hedonist
As a dedicated hedonist, she spent all her money on spa days and fine wine.

Hegemony
The Roman Empire maintained strict hegemony over the Mediterranean for centuries.

Heinous
The jury quickly convicted the murderer for his particularly heinous crimes.

Heterogeneous
The diverse neighborhood consists of a truly heterogeneous mix of cultures.

Hiatus
The beloved television show returned to the air after a five-year hiatus.

Hierarchy
She worked her way up the corporate hierarchy from intern to executive.

Hypocrisy
It is pure hypocrisy to complain about pollution while throwing trash out the window.

Hypothetical
The physics exam asked us to solve a hypothetical scenario involving time travel.

Iconoclast
The rebellious painter was an iconoclast who mocked traditional artistic standards.

Idiosyncratic
His idiosyncratic habit of eating pizza with chopsticks amused his friends.

Idolatrous
The fans' idolatrous worship of the pop star bordered on an obsession.

Ignominious
The disgraced general suffered an ignominious retreat after losing the battle.

Illicit
Police uncovered an illicit gambling ring operating behind the butcher shop.

Immerse
She likes to immerse herself in a hot bath after a long day at work.

Immutable
The speed of light in a vacuum is an immutable law of physics.

Impassive
The royal guard remained completely impassive despite the teasing tourists.

Impeccable
The butler's impeccable manners made him a favorite among the wealthy guests.

Impecunious
The impecunious artist often traded his paintings for hot meals.

Imperative
It is imperative that you submit your application before the midnight deadline.

Imperious
The imperious manager snapped her fingers and ordered the staff to work faster.

Impertinent
The student was sent to the principal for making impertinent remarks.

Impervious
My new winter coat is completely impervious to the freezing wind.

Impetuous
Marrying someone you just met in Vegas is a highly impetuous decision.

Impinge
I won't let your bad mood impinge upon my enjoyment of this vacation.

Implacable
The implacable crying baby refused every pacifier we offered.

Implement
The city council voted to implement a new recycling program next month.

Implicate
The forged signature on the check will implicate the accountant in the fraud.

Implicit
Her tight-lipped smile carried an implicit warning to stop asking questions.

Impregnable
The thick stone walls made the ancient castle virtually impregnable.

Impudent
The impudent teenager rolled his eyes when asked to clean his room.

Impute
You cannot impute the company's financial failure to one single employee.

Inane
The sitcom was filled with inane dialogue that insulted the viewers' intelligence.

Inarticulate
Shock made him entirely inarticulate when he won the lottery.

Incarnate
With her fierce temper and cruel jokes, she seemed like a demon incarnate.

Incendiary
The rebel leader distributed incendiary pamphlets to spark a revolution.

Incessant
The incessant dripping of the leaky faucet kept me awake all night.

Inchoate
His thesis was still in an inchoate stage, consisting mostly of scattered notes.

Incisive
Her incisive critique cut right to the core of the author's flawed argument.

Inclination
I have a strong inclination to stay home and read instead of going out tonight.

Incontrovertible
The DNA match provided incontrovertible proof of the suspect's guilt.

Incorrigible
The incorrigible prankster glued the teacher's coffee mug to the desk.

Increment
Your salary will increase by a small increment every six months.

Incumbent
The incumbent mayor is heavily favored to win a second term in office.

Indefatigable
The indefatigable marathoner crossed the finish line without even breaking a sweat.

Indigenous
Kangaroos and koalas are indigenous solely to the continent of Australia.

Indigent
The local soup kitchen provides hot meals for the city's indigent population.

Indignation
She wrote a letter of pure indignation after receiving the insulting bill.

Indolent
The indolent cat spent fourteen hours asleep on the warmest spot on the rug.

Indomitable
Helen Keller's indomitable spirit allowed her to overcome tremendous obstacles.

Induce
The doctor prescribed medication to induce labor for the overdue mother.

Ineffable
The view of the Grand Canyon at sunrise possesses an ineffable beauty.

Inept
The inept plumber accidentally flooded the entire basement while fixing the sink.

Inexorable
The inexorable march of time slowly turns children into adults.

Inextricable
The history of the town is an inextricable part of my own family's heritage.

Infamy
The traitor's name will live in infamy for betraying his own country.

Infusion
The dying patient required an immediate infusion of red blood cells.

Ingenious
The engineer designed an ingenious device to safely catch falling glass.

Ingenuous
Her ingenuous belief in the goodness of everyone made her an easy target for scams.

Inhibit
Cold temperatures can seriously inhibit the growth of tropical plants.

Inimical
Heavy frost is entirely inimical to the survival of a fragile citrus crop.

Iniquity
The crusading journalist sought to expose the dark iniquity of the corrupt prison system.

Injunction
A judge issued an injunction to stop the demolition of the historic theater.

Innate
Birds possess an innate sense of direction that guides their winter migrations.

Innocuous
The seemingly innocuous mushroom turned out to be highly poisonous.

Innovate
Tech companies must constantly innovate or risk being left behind by competitors.

Innuendo
The gossip column was full of scandalous innuendo about the actor's divorce.

Inoculate
You must inoculate your new puppy against rabies before bringing him to the park.

Inquisitor
The ruthless inquisitor demanded the names of the hidden rebels.

Insatiable
The hungry teenager has an insatiable appetite for greasy fast food.

Insidious
Carbon monoxide is an insidious threat because it is totally odorless and invisible.

Insinuate
Are you trying to insinuate that I stole the money from the cash register?

Insipid
The hospital food was so insipid that I begged my wife to smuggle in a pizza.

Insolent
The insolent clerk chewed gum and ignored the customers waiting in line.

Instigate
The bully tried to instigate a fight by shoving the smaller kid in the hallway.

Insular
The isolated farming community remained highly insular and distrustful of strangers.

Insurgent
A lone insurgent managed to sabotage the military convoy under the cover of darkness.

Integral
A sturdy foundation is an integral component of any well-built house.

Interject
Please do not interject your opinions while the guest speaker is presenting.

Interlocutor
The translator served as a vital interlocutor between the two foreign diplomats.

Interminable
The three-hour graduation ceremony felt absolutely interminable in the hot sun.

Intimation
Her sudden frown was my first intimation that the plan was going wrong.

Intractable
The puzzle proved so intractable that I eventually threw it in the trash.

Intransigent
The intransigent union leader refused to accept any compromises on healthcare.

Intrepid
An intrepid journalist ventured into the active war zone to get the story.

Inundate
Fans will surely inundate the singer's inbox with birthday wishes.

Inure
Growing up in Alaska helped inure him to freezing winter temperatures.

Invective
The angry driver shouted a stream of harsh invective out his window.

Inveterate
As an inveterate liar, he couldn't even tell the truth about what he ate for breakfast.

Inviolable
The treaty established an inviolable border that neither army could cross.

Irascible
Our irascible neighbor yells at any kids who dare step on his lawn.

Iridescent
The soap bubble shimmered with beautiful, iridescent colors before it popped.

Irreverence
His casual irreverence during the solemn memorial service shocked everyone present.

Irrevocable
Sending that angry email is an irrevocable mistake you will surely regret.

Jubilant
The jubilant lottery winner popped a bottle of champagne in her driveway.

Judicious
A judicious buyer always reads the reviews before purchasing an expensive appliance.

Juxtaposition
The juxtaposition of the sleek modern sofa against the rustic brick wall is striking.

Knell
The somber knell of the church bell signaled the passing of the old king.

Kudos
She deserves major kudos for organizing the charity gala all by herself.

Laceration
The broken glass caused a deep laceration on his left forearm.

Laconic
The cowboy's laconic reply was just a brief nod and a tip of his hat.

Languid
We spent a languid Sunday afternoon napping in the hammock.

Larceny
Shoplifting a candy bar is still considered an act of petty larceny.

Largess
The new hospital wing was built entirely through the largess of a local billionaire.

Latent
The quiet student possessed a latent talent for public speaking that surprised everyone.

Laudatory
The restaurant critic wrote a highly laudatory review of the new bistro.

Lavish
The celebrity threw a lavish birthday party featuring a private fireworks display.

Legerdemain
The street magician used quick legerdemain to make the coin vanish into thin air.

Lenient
The lenient professor allowed me to turn in my term paper three days late.

Lethargic
A heavy lunch of pasta and bread left me feeling lethargic all afternoon.

Liability
Failing to shovel the icy sidewalk is a major liability for any homeowner.

Libertarian
The libertarian candidate argued strongly against unnecessary government regulations.

Licentious
The scandal exposed the licentious behavior occurring behind the scenes of the show.

Limpid
We could see straight to the bottom of the limpid mountain stream.

Linchpin
Her organizational skills are the true linchpin holding this entire project together.

Lithe
The lithe ballerina leaped across the stage with effortless grace.

Litigant
The angry litigant stormed out of the courtroom when the judge ruled against him.

Lucid
Despite his high fever, the patient remained perfectly lucid and able to answer questions.

Luminous
The luminous dial on my watch allows me to check the time in pitch darkness.

Lurid
The tabloid cover featured a lurid headline about the celebrity's messy divorce.

Maelstrom
The canoe was caught in a terrifying maelstrom of swirling white water.

Magnanimous
The magnanimous winner praised his opponent's skill during the trophy presentation.

Malediction
The sorceress muttered a dark malediction before vanishing into the shadows.

Malevolent
A malevolent spirit was said to haunt the abandoned Victorian mansion.

Malleable
Pure gold is highly malleable and easily shaped into delicate jewelry.

Mandate
The governor issued a statewide mandate requiring masks in all public buildings.

Manifest
Her relief was manifest in the huge smile that spread across her face.

Manifold
The benefits of regular cardiovascular exercise are truly manifold.

Maudlin
The movie's maudlin ending made half the theater roll their eyes in annoyance.

Maverick
The maverick detective frequently ignored police protocol to solve difficult cases.

Mawkish
She threw away the mawkish greeting card because the poem was too cheesy.

Maxim
He lives by the simple maxim that honesty is always the best policy.

Meager
His meager salary was barely enough to cover the monthly rent and groceries.

Medley
The choir sang a delightful medley of classic Christmas carols.

Mendacious
The mendacious car salesman lied about the vehicle's accident history.

Mercurial
Her mercurial temperament meant she could go from laughing to crying in seconds.

Meritorious
The soldier received a medal for his incredibly meritorious conduct in battle.

Metamorphosis
The tadpole's metamorphosis into a fully grown frog takes several weeks.

Meticulous
The forensic team conducted a meticulous search of the crime scene for evidence.

Mitigate
We planted tall trees along the road to mitigate the terrible traffic noise.

Moderate
A moderate amount of daily sunlight is actually healthy for your skin.

Modicum
I expect at least a modicum of respect when I am speaking to you.

Modulate
You need to modulate your tone of voice when speaking to a customer.

Mollify
The manager gave away free drink vouchers to mollify the angry airline passengers.

Morass
The rainy season turned the hiking trail into an impassable morass of thick mud.

Mores
Understanding the social mores of a foreign culture is essential before traveling there.

Morose
The morose teenager sulked in his bedroom after being grounded for the weekend.

Multifarious
The internet offers a multifarious array of information on literally any topic.

Mundane
Sorting the laundry is just one of the mundane chores I have to do on Sundays.

Munificence
The university relies heavily on the munificence of its wealthy alumni donors.

Mutable
Language is a highly mutable concept, constantly evolving over the centuries.

Myriad
The night sky was filled with a myriad of sparkling, distant stars.

Nadir
Losing his job and his house on the same day was the true nadir of his life.

Nascent
The nascent space tourism industry is currently only accessible to billionaires.

Nebulous
The politician's plans for tax reform remained frustratingly nebulous and undefined.

Nefarious
The superhero thwarted the villain's nefarious plot to poison the city's water supply.

Negligent
The negligent babysitter spent the entire evening looking at her phone instead of the kids.

Neophyte
As a complete neophyte to chess, I lost my first game in under five minutes.

Nocturnal
Raccoons are nocturnal scavengers that mostly forage for food after dark.

Noisome
A noisome stench emanated from the overflowing dumpster behind the restaurant.

Nomadic
The nomadic tribe packed up their tents and followed the migrating buffalo herds.

Nominal
I purchased the broken antique clock for a purely nominal fee at the garage sale.

Nonchalant
He tried to appear nonchalant, but his shaking hands revealed his severe nervousness.

Nondescript
The spy parked a nondescript gray sedan across the street from the target's house.

Notorious
The notorious pirate Blackbeard struck terror into the hearts of sailors everywhere.

Novice
The ski instructor guided the nervous novice down the easiest bunny hill.

Noxious
The factory was fined for pumping noxious fumes directly into the atmosphere.

Nuance
The actor's performance lacked the subtle nuance needed for such a complex role.

Nurture
A good teacher knows exactly how to nurture a student's hidden academic potential.

Obdurate
The obdurate donkey firmly planted its feet and refused to walk any further.

Obfuscate
The lawyer used confusing legal jargon to deliberately obfuscate the facts of the case.

Oblique
She made an oblique reference to his recent weight gain without stating it directly.

Oblivious
He was completely oblivious to the fact that his shirt was on inside out.

Obscure
The historian discovered an obscure medieval manuscript hidden in the monastery archives.

Obsequious
The obsequious waiter constantly hovered near our table offering unnecessary compliments.

Obsolete
The invention of the digital calculator made the slide rule completely obsolete.

Obstinate
The obstinate toddler clamped his mouth shut and refused to eat the broccoli.

Obstreperous
The obstreperous soccer fans started throwing bottles onto the field after the foul.

Obtuse
I was being deliberately obtuse when I pretended not to understand his insult.

Odious
Cleaning out the moldy refrigerator is an absolutely odious household chore.

Officious
An officious security guard demanded to check my ID three times in ten minutes.

Ominous
The sudden silence in the jungle felt like an ominous warning of approaching danger.

Onerous
Filling out fifty pages of tax paperwork is an incredibly onerous responsibility.

Opulent
The opulent ballroom featured crystal chandeliers and gold-leaf trim on the walls.

Oration
The valedictorian delivered a moving oration to her graduating high school class.

Ornate
The antique mirror features an ornate silver frame carved with intricate flowers.

Orthodox
His orthodox approach to playing chess relies heavily on established book openings.

Oscillate
The fan is designed to oscillate so that cool air reaches every corner of the room.

Ostensible
His ostensible reason for visiting was to borrow a tool, but he really wanted to see her.

Ostentatious
She wore an ostentatious diamond necklace that blinded everyone in the room.

Ostracism
Speaking out against the cult's leader will result in your immediate social ostracism.

Pacific
The pacific islanders greeted the exhausted sailors with fresh fruit and water.

Palatable
Adding a spoonful of honey made the bitter herbal tea much more palatable.

Palette
The sunset painted the horizon with a vibrant palette of oranges, pinks, and purples.

Palliate
The nurse gave him morphine to palliate the severe pain of his broken leg.

Pallid
Her pallid complexion after the rollercoaster ride suggested she was about to faint.

Panacea
There is no magical panacea that will instantly cure the complex economy.

Paradigm
The invention of the internet created a new paradigm for global communication.

Paradox
It is a strange paradox that the loudest people often have the least to say.

Paragon
The saintly priest was considered a paragon of virtue by his entire congregation.

Paramount
Ensuring the safety of the passengers is the paramount duty of the flight crew.

Pariah
The disgraced executive became a social pariah after the embezzlement scandal broke.

Parody
"Weird Al" Yankovic is famous for writing hilarious parody versions of popular pop songs.

Parsimony
Her extreme parsimony meant she refused to turn on the heat even in December.

Partisan
The deeply partisan news network refuses to broadcast any opposing political viewpoints.

Patent
His claim that he invented the automobile is a patent falsehood that anyone can disprove.

Pathology
The medical student is currently studying the pathology of infectious lung diseases.

Pathos
The sad commercial featuring abandoned puppies relies heavily on emotional pathos.

Paucity
The paucity of fresh water in the desert makes survival extremely difficult.

Pejorative
"Tree-hugger" is often used as a pejorative term to insult environmental activists.

Pellucid
The shallow tropical water was so pellucid you could clearly read a coin on the bottom.

Penchant
My grandmother has a well-known penchant for buying unnecessarily expensive shoes.

Penitent
The penitent criminal wrote letters of apology to all the families he had wronged.

Penultimate
November is the penultimate month of the standard Gregorian calendar year.

Penurious
The penurious old miser died alone on a mattress stuffed with hoarded cash.

Perfidious
The perfidious knight betrayed his king by opening the castle gates to the enemy.

Perfunctory
The bored cashier gave a perfunctory nod as she handed back my receipt.

Permeate
The smell of baking bread quickly began to permeate the entire house.

Pernicious
The pernicious weed choked out all the native plants in the garden bed.

Perplex
The complicated riddle managed to completely perplex the escape room participants.

Perspicacity
Her sharp perspicacity allowed her to immediately spot the flaw in his business plan.

Pert
The young girl wore a pert little hat adorned with a single red feather.

Pertinacious
The pertinacious reporter refused to leave the lobby until the mayor gave a statement.

Perusal
The lengthy legal document requires careful perusal before you sign your name.

Pervasive
The pervasive smell of bleach indicated the hospital room had just been sanitized.

Petulance
The tired actor showed his petulance by snapping at the makeup artist.

Philanthropic
The billionaire established a philanthropic foundation to build schools in rural areas.

Phlegmatic
The phlegmatic bus driver ignored the shouting passengers and calmly drove his route.

Pillage
Viking raiders would frequently pillage coastal villages for gold and supplies.

Pinnacle
Reaching the summit of Mount Everest represents the pinnacle of a climber's career.

Pithy
The wise philosopher was known for his pithy quotes that summarized complex truths simply.

Pittance
He quit his grueling job because they only paid him a pathetic pittance.

Placate
I bought my girlfriend a bouquet of flowers to placate her after I forgot our anniversary.

Placid
The surface of the placid lake was as smooth and reflective as a mirror.

Platitude
"Everything happens for a reason" is a tired platitude that rarely comforts a grieving person.

Plaudits
The stunning theatrical performance earned well-deserved plaudits from the tough critics.

Plausible
Her excuse that traffic caused her lateness was entirely plausible during rush hour.

Plenitude
The autumn harvest brought a plenitude of pumpkins and squash to the farmer's market.

Plethora
The huge buffet offered a plethora of dessert options, from cheesecake to chocolate fondue.

Pliable
The hot glass is highly pliable and can be stretched into beautiful, delicate shapes.

Poignant
The old photograph of his late grandfather brought back a poignant rush of memories.

Polemic
The angry journalist published a fiery polemic condemning the city's corrupt mayor.

Portent
A black cat crossing your path is considered an unlucky portent in many cultures.

Potable
The hikers carried a filtration straw to ensure the river water was safe and potable.

Potentate
The arrogant potentate demanded that his subjects bow whenever he entered the room.

Pragmatic
We need a pragmatic solution to this budget crisis, not just unrealistic wishful thinking.

Precipice
The mountain goat stood fearlessly on the very edge of the rocky precipice.

Preclude
A prior felony conviction will preclude you from purchasing a firearm in this state.

Precocious
The precocious five-year-old could already play complex Mozart sonatas on the piano.

Predilection
He has a strong predilection for spicy food and puts hot sauce on everything.

Preponderance
A preponderance of circumstantial evidence led the jury to a guilty verdict.

Prepossessing
The real estate agent showed us a highly prepossessing Victorian home with a wrap-around porch.

Presage
The sudden drop in barometric pressure is often a presage to a severe thunderstorm.

Prescient
Her prescient warning about the housing market crash saved her clients millions of dollars.

Prescribe
The doctor will prescribe a strong course of antibiotics to clear up your infection.

Presumptuous
It was presumptuous of him to assume I would pay for his expensive dinner.

Pretense
He kept up the pretense of being wealthy by renting expensive sports cars.

Primeval
The hikers ventured deep into the dark, primeval forest where few humans ever go.

Privation
The refugees suffered extreme privation during the harsh, freezing winter months.

Probity
The judge is a woman of absolute probity who has never taken a bribe.

Proclivity
The mischievous puppy has a definite proclivity for chewing on expensive leather shoes.

Procure
I need to procure some rare spices before I can cook this authentic Indian dish.

Profane
He was kicked out of the church for shouting profane insults during the sermon.

Profligate
The profligate heir blew through his entire massive inheritance in less than two years.

Profuse
The marathon runner offered profuse thanks to the volunteer handing out water.

Promulgate
The dictator used state-run television to actively promulgate his political propaganda.

Propagate
Gardeners often propagate spider plants by clipping and planting the small offshoots.

Propensity
My clumsy brother has a propensity for dropping his phone and cracking the screen.

Propitious
Finding a four-leaf clover right before the exam felt like a very propitious sign.

Propriety
The strict boarding school placed a heavy emphasis on manners and social propriety.

Prosaic
His writing style is rather prosaic and lacks any sort of creative imagination.

Proscribe
The city council voted to strictly proscribe the use of fireworks within city limits.

Protean
The protean actor flawlessly transformed into six completely different characters in one play.

Prowess
The samurai was renowned throughout the province for his unmatched martial prowess.

Prudence
Displaying financial prudence, she saved twenty percent of every paycheck she earned.

Prurient
The scandalous magazine was banned from the school library for its prurient content.

Puerile
Throwing spitballs at the substitute teacher is incredibly puerile behavior for a high schooler.

Pugnacious
The pugnacious little terrier would bark and snap at dogs ten times its size.

Pulchritude
The classical poet wrote countless sonnets praising the pulchritude of his beloved muse.

Punctilious
The punctilious hall monitor cited students if they were even thirty seconds late.

Pungent
The pungent aroma of roasting garlic drifted from the Italian restaurant's kitchen.

Punitive
The judge imposed harsh punitive damages to ensure the corporation never repeated the offense.

Putrid
A putrid stench arose from the forgotten bag of rotting potatoes in the pantry.

Quagmire
The military intervention quickly turned into a messy political quagmire with no easy exit.

Quaint
We stayed in a quaint little bed-and-breakfast covered in climbing ivy.

Quandary
Choosing between the high-paying job and the fulfilling job left her in a quandary.

Quell
The riot police used tear gas to quickly quell the violent uprising in the square.

Querulous
The querulous customer complained about the lighting, the temperature, and the music.

Quixotic
His quixotic quest to build a time machine out of spare microwave parts ultimately failed.

Quotidian
Checking my email and making coffee are part of my quotidian morning routine.

Rail
The angry pundit took to the airwaves to rail against the new tax legislation.

Rancid
The butter had been left out of the fridge so long that it tasted completely rancid.

Rancor
Despite the bitter divorce, they managed to co-parent without any obvious rancor.

Rapport
The friendly therapist quickly established a strong rapport with the nervous child.

Rash
Quitting your job before finding a new one is an incredibly rash financial decision.

Raucous
A raucous party next door kept me awake until three in the morning.

Raze
Developers plan to raze the abandoned factory to build a new shopping mall.

Rebuke
The general issued a stern rebuke to the captain for ignoring his direct orders.

Recalcitrant
The recalcitrant horse refused to enter the trailer no matter how hard we pulled.

Recapitulate
Let me briefly recapitulate the main points of the presentation before we conclude.

Reciprocate
If someone invites you to their home for dinner, you should eventually reciprocate.

Reclusive
The reclusive billionaire rarely left the heavily guarded walls of his mountain estate.

Reconcile
It took years for the estranged brothers to finally reconcile their differences.

Rectitude
The priest was a model of moral rectitude who dedicated his life to helping the poor.

Redoubtable
The heavyweight champion was a redoubtable opponent who had never lost a fight.

Refract
A prism will refract white light into a beautiful spectrum of rainbow colors.

Refurbish
I bought an old dresser at a garage sale intending to refurbish it with new paint.

Refute
The scientist published a comprehensive paper to definitively refute the flawed theory.

Regurgitate
The mother bird will chew the worms and regurgitate them for her hungry chicks.

Relegate
After his terrible mistake, the manager decided to relegate him to a desk job.

Relish
I always relish the opportunity to sleep in late on a rainy Sunday morning.

Remedial
The struggling student was placed in a remedial math class to learn the basics.

Remiss
I would be remiss if I didn't thank my wonderful parents for their endless support.

Renovate
We hired a contractor to entirely renovate our outdated 1970s kitchen.

Renown
The opera singer achieved international renown for her breathtaking soprano voice.

Renunciation
The ascetic monk's vows included a total renunciation of all personal wealth.

Repentant
The repentant sinner prayed deeply for forgiveness at the altar.

Replete
The Thanksgiving table was replete with turkey, stuffing, and three kinds of pie.

Repose
The exhausted traveler found a moment of quiet repose in the shady park.

Reprehensible
Stealing from a charity donation box is an absolutely reprehensible act.

Reprieve
The sudden rainstorm offered a welcome reprieve from the blistering summer heat.

Reproach
Her spotless professional record is completely beyond any reproach.

Reprobate
The old reprobate spent his pension gambling at the dog track and drinking cheap whiskey.

Reprove
A good mentor will gently reprove a student's mistakes without crushing their confidence.

Repudiate
The company quickly issued a statement to repudiate the racist comments made by its CEO.

Repulse
The defenders poured boiling oil over the castle walls to repulse the invaders.

Reputable
You should always take your car to a reputable mechanic rather than a shady garage.

Requisition
The office manager submitted a formal requisition for a new high-speed printer.

Rescind
The university will rescind your acceptance letter if you fail your final high school exams.

Reservoir
The city relies on a massive underground reservoir for its drinking water supply.

Resilient
Rubber is a highly resilient material that snaps back into shape after being stretched.

Resolute
She remained completely resolute in her decision to climb the mountain without oxygen.

Resolve
The couple went to therapy hoping to successfully resolve their marital conflicts.

Respite
Finding a cool, air-conditioned cafe provided a brief respite from the sweltering humidity.

Resplendent
The peacock looked absolutely resplendent displaying its bright blue and green tail feathers.

Restitution
The vandal was ordered by the court to pay full restitution for the broken window.

Restive
The restive horse pawed the ground nervously as the thunderstorm approached.

Retract
The newspaper was forced to retract the defamatory article and print a formal apology.

Revel
The victorious football team went out to revel in their massive championship win.

Revere
In many cultures, children are taught to deeply revere and respect their elders.

Revoke
The judge will immediately revoke your driver's license if you get another speeding ticket.

Rhapsodize
He would frequently rhapsodize about the incredible beauty of the Tuscan countryside.

Ribald
The drunken sailors entertained themselves by singing ribald songs at the tavern.

Rife
The corrupt police department was completely rife with bribery and scandal.

Ruminate
I need a few days to carefully ruminate on this job offer before I give my answer.

Ruse
The Trojan Horse was a brilliant military ruse used to sneak soldiers into the city.

Saccharine
The movie's saccharine soundtrack completely ruined the serious tone of the dramatic scene.

Sacrosanct
To the devout monk, the ancient temple texts were considered entirely sacrosanct.

Sagacity
The village elder was sought out by many for his remarkable wisdom and sagacity.

Salient
The consultant summarized the most salient points of the lengthy financial report.

Salutation
She ended her formal letter with a polite salutation and her handwritten signature.

Salve
Aloe vera gel is an excellent cooling salve for a painful sunburn.

Sanctimonious
The sanctimonious politician lectured others on morality while secretly taking bribes.

Sanguine
Despite the poor economic forecast, the CEO remained highly sanguine about the company's future.

Satiate
A heavy bowl of oatmeal is usually enough to satiate my hunger until lunchtime.

Scathing
The theater critic wrote a scathing review that essentially closed the play on opening night.

Scintillating
The brilliant astrophysicist delivered a scintillating lecture on the formation of black holes.

Scrupulous
The scrupulous accountant caught an error of merely three cents in the massive ledger.

Scurrilous
The tabloid printed a scurrilous rumor about the actress having a secret love child.

Sedentary
Office workers who lead a sedentary lifestyle are encouraged to exercise more often.

Semaphore
The sailor used two bright orange flags to send a semaphore message to the other ship.

Seminal
The discovery of penicillin was a seminal moment in the history of modern medicine.

Sensual
The massage therapist used warm, scented oils to create a deeply sensual experience.

Sensuous
The sensuous curve of the sports car's body was designed to reduce aerodynamic drag.

Serendipity
Finding my lost wedding ring in the garden years later was a stroke of pure serendipity.

Serene
The serene mountain lake was perfectly still, reflecting the pine trees like a mirror.

Servile
He hated how his servile assistant constantly bowed and agreed with his every word.

Sinuous
The sinuous mountain road twisted dangerously along the edge of the steep cliff.

Sobriety
The recovering alcoholic proudly celebrated his fifth year of continuous sobriety.

Solicitous
The solicitous flight attendant constantly checked to make sure the nervous passenger was okay.

Solipsistic
Her solipsistic worldview made it impossible for her to empathize with anyone else's struggles.

Soluble
Sugar is highly soluble and will dissolve quickly in a hot cup of tea.

Solvent
The business remained financially solvent despite the massive global economic recession.

Somnolent
The warm fire and the soft music made me feel incredibly somnolent and ready for bed.

Sophomoric
The frat boys thought their sophomoric prank with the shaving cream was hilarious.

Sovereign
The sovereign nation refused to let any foreign military powers cross its borders.

Speculative
His theory about ancient aliens building the pyramids is entirely speculative and unproven.

Spurious
The internet is full of spurious quotes falsely attributed to famous historical figures.

Stagnate
Without any new ideas or investments, the small town's economy began to stagnate.

Staid
The staid bank manager wore the exact same gray suit and tie every single day.

Stingy
The stingy boss refused to pay for coffee in the breakroom for his employees.

Stoic
The stoic soldier did not shed a single tear as they treated his painful shrapnel wound.

Stolid
The stolid bouncer stood at the club entrance with a completely blank, unreadable expression.

Strenuous
Chopping firewood all afternoon is incredibly strenuous physical labor.

Strident
A strident fire alarm pierced the quiet atmosphere of the library reading room.

Stupefy
The magician's ability to levitate a car managed to completely stupefy the audience.

Subjugate
The invading empire sought to subjugate the local tribes and force them into slavery.

Sublime
Tasting a perfectly cooked truffle risotto is a truly sublime culinary experience.

Submissive
The submissive dog rolled onto its back to show surrender to the larger alpha wolf.

Succinct
The instructions on the fire extinguisher are appropriately brief and succinct.

Superfluous
The author edited out three pages of superfluous description to quicken the pacing.

Surfeit
A massive surfeit of apples caused the orchard to drop its prices dramatically.

Surmise
From his wet umbrella, I could easily surmise that it was raining outside.

Surreptitious
She took a surreptitious peek at her phone under the desk during the exam.

Surrogate
Since they could not conceive, the couple decided to hire a surrogate mother.

Swarthy
The pirate captain had a rough, swarthy complexion from years of sailing in the sun.

Sycophant
The king's court was filled with groveling sycophants desperate for royal favor.

Tacit
My boss gave a tacit nod of approval when I suggested leaving the office early.

Taciturn
My grandfather is a taciturn man who prefers quiet whittling to making idle conversation.

Tangential
The professor went off on a tangential rant about his cats instead of teaching calculus.

Tantamount
Leaving a dog locked in a hot car is tantamount to animal cruelty.

Tedious
Peeling fifty pounds of potatoes by hand is an incredibly tedious chore.

Temerity
I cannot believe he had the temerity to ask for a raise after losing the biggest client.

Temperance
The strict religious sect preaches absolute temperance regarding alcohol and gambling.

Tenable
His alibi was simply not tenable once the security camera footage was revealed.

Tenuous
The bridge was held up by a tenuous system of rusting cables that looked ready to snap.

Terrestrial
Unlike aquatic turtles, the desert tortoise is a strictly terrestrial reptile.

Timorous
The timorous kitten hid under the couch whenever the doorbell rang.

Tirade
The angry chef launched into a foul-mouthed tirade when the waiter dropped the plates.

Toady
The CEO's little toady follows him around everywhere, carrying his briefcase and fetching coffee.

Tome
The library's reference section holds a massive leather-bound tome detailing the town's history.

Torpid
During hibernation, the torpid bear's heart rate drops to just a few beats per minute.

Torrid
The couple embarked on a torrid summer romance that burned out by September.

Tortuous
The tortuous maze of narrow medieval streets makes it very easy to get lost in the city.

Tractable
The new substitute teacher found the class to be surprisingly quiet and tractable.

Tranquil
We spent a tranquil evening sipping wine on the porch and listening to the crickets.

Transgress
Those who transgress the sacred laws of the temple will be banished forever.

Transient
A hotel near the airport primarily caters to a highly transient population of travelers.

Transmute
The villain used a magical spell to transmute the heroic prince into a tiny frog.

Travesty
Allowing the guilty murderer to walk free on a technicality is a travesty of justice.

Tremulous
She read the eulogy in a tremulous voice, struggling to hold back her tears.

Trenchant
The political commentator is known for his trenchant and biting analysis of current events.

Trepidation
I opened the letter from the IRS with a profound sense of trepidation.

Trite
The commencement speech was full of trite advice like "follow your dreams" and "reach for the stars."

Truculent
The truculent drunk shoved the bartender and challenged everyone in the pub to a fight.

Truncate
We had to truncate our beach vacation by two days because a hurricane was approaching.

Turgid
The academic paper was so incredibly turgid that I had to reread every sentence twice.

Turpitude
The corrupt judge was removed from the bench for acts of extreme moral turpitude.

Ubiquitous
Coffee shops have become practically ubiquitous on every street corner in the city.

Umbrage
He took immediate umbrage at my suggestion that his painting looked like a child's drawing.

Uncanny
The wax figure at the museum bore an uncanny resemblance to the real president.

Unctuous
The unctuous car salesman used excessive flattery to try and secure a quick commission.

Undulate
The belly dancer's hips began to smoothly undulate to the rhythm of the drums.

Upbraid
My mother will certainly upbraid me if I track muddy footprints across her clean floor.

Usurp
The ambitious duke plotted to assassinate his brother and usurp the royal throne.

Utilitarian
The concrete bunker was a purely utilitarian structure designed for safety, not beauty.

Utopia
The sci-fi novel depicted a flawless, peaceful utopia where war and poverty had been eradicated.

Vacillate
I continue to vacillate between ordering the steak or the salmon for dinner.

Vacuous
The reality television star gave a vacuous interview filled with giggles and empty stares.

Validate
You must stamp your parking ticket at the front desk to validate it for free exit.

Vapid
The pop song featured a catchy beat but completely vapid and meaningless lyrics.

Variegated
The gardener planted a beautiful bed of variegated hostas with green and white striped leaves.

Vehemently
The suspect vehemently denied having any involvement in the bank robbery.

Veneer
Beneath his polite veneer, he was actually a ruthless and calculating businessman.

Venerable
The venerable old oak tree had provided shade in the town square for over two centuries.

Venerate
Many ancient cultures used to venerate the sun as a powerful and life-giving deity.

Veracity
The journalist checked three different sources to confirm the veracity of the whistleblower's claims.

Verbose
The verbose professor took twenty minutes to answer a simple yes-or-no question.

Verdant
After the spring rains, the rolling hills transformed into a lush, verdant paradise.

Vestige
The crumbling stone chimney is the last remaining vestige of the old pioneer cabin.

Vex
The incredibly difficult crossword puzzle continued to vex me for the entire morning.

Vicarious
The paralyzed former athlete experienced a vicarious thrill watching his son win the race.

Vicissitude
Farmers must constantly adapt to the unpredictable vicissitude of the seasonal weather.

Vigilant
The vigilant night watchman patrolled the factory perimeter with a bright flashlight.

Vilify
The opposing campaign ran nasty television ads trying to vilify the incumbent senator.

Vindicate
The newly discovered fingerprint evidence will finally vindicate the wrongfully accused suspect.

Vindictive
The vindictive ex-wife keyed his car and poured sugar in the gas tank.

Virtuoso
The young violin virtuoso sold out concert halls around the world before she turned twenty.

Viscous
Cold honey is incredibly viscous and pours very slowly from the plastic bear bottle.

Vitriolic
The internet comments section quickly devolved into a mess of vitriolic insults and threats.

Vituperate
The furious customer began to vituperate the poor cashier over an expired coupon.

Vivacious
The vivacious cheerleader brought incredible energy and spirit to the gloomy locker room.

Vocation
Nursing is not just a job to her; she truly considers it a lifelong, fulfilling vocation.

Vociferous
The vociferous crowd outside the courthouse demanded a harsh sentence for the criminal.

Wallow
Pigs love to wallow in cool mud to protect their sensitive skin from the hot sun.

Wane
The bright glow of the campfire began to wane as the logs burned down to embers.

Wanton
The vandals engaged in wanton destruction, smashing windows and overturning cars for no reason.

Whimsical
The children's book features a whimsical world filled with talking teacups and flying pigs.

Wily
The wily coyote managed to snatch a chicken right out from under the farmer's nose.

Winsome
The little girl's winsome smile easily convinced her grandfather to buy her an ice cream cone.

Wistful
He cast a wistful glance at his old high school as he drove out of his hometown forever.

Wizened
The wizened old fortune teller stared deeply into her crystal ball with tired, cloudy eyes.

Wrath
The ancient Greeks believed that a violent thunderstorm was a sign of Zeus's terrible wrath.

Yoke
The farmer securely fastened the heavy wooden yoke around the necks of the two oxen.

Zealous
The zealous missionary traveled to dangerous remote jungles to spread his religious beliefs.

Zenith
At the absolute zenith of his career, the actor won three Academy Awards in a single night.

Zephyr
A cool, refreshing zephyr blew gently off the ocean, providing relief from the blazing sun.